<br /><p>原文：<a href="http://theploneblog.org/blog/archive/2007/03/07/march-martin-mythbusting">http://theploneblog.org/blog/archive/2007/03/07/march-martin-mythbusting</a><br /><br />The idea that Plone is going to stop using Archteypes seems to be percolating out there in the wild somewhere.  As Martin definitively<br />states: it's not true.<br /><br />    Hi all,<br /><br />    Just in the interest of avoiding confusion and doubt:<br /><br />    The Plone team have no immediate plans to remove Archetypes or stop maintaining it<br /><br />    Archetypes is alive and well. It has a new, pragmatic and reliable maintainer in Daniel Nouri. We all use it. Our customer deployments all rely on it. New documentation is being written for it. Plone's core content types are all built with Archetypes. Probably 90% of third party components are built on it as well.<br /><br />    It is true that there are new technologies that overlap in part with what Archetypes has covered in the past, such as better ways of making references between content or new ways of generating forms (especially when those forms are not meant to edit a content object).As Archetypes evolves, we will standardise on more such technologies and improve Archetypes' ability to interoperate with other parts of our stack. This is the way our evolution has always happened.<br /><br />    That does NOT mean that all your AT-based content types will suddenly stop working. So long as you keep testing your code with the version of Plone you want it to run with, and listen to deprecation warnings to pre-empt things being removed (after the standard two-version deprecation period) all will be well.<br /><br />    In Plone 3, Archetypes has gained a few new features that make Archetypes content types a bit more fleixble. To my knowledge, "plain"<br />Archetypes content types should not break in Plone 3.<br /><br />    In other words - this is a big message about nothing. But justlike the "Plone 3 will run on pure Zope 3" myth (also not true!) this<br />one is dangerous if a number of people believe it to be true.<br /></p><p><br /></p><p><a href="../../eishn">沈崴</a>翻译:<br />---<br /><br />关于 Plone 离弃 Archetypes 的街头巷议正在愈演愈烈, 而 Martin 则斩钉截铁: 此乃戏言。<br /><br />	诸公好,<br /><br />	这里来正一下视听。<br /><br />	Plone 工作组尚无立即移除或停止支持 Archetypes 的计划。<br /><br />	Archetypes 活得很好, Daniel Nouri 他们这支勇武可靠的新军正在维护着它。我们都在基于 Archetypes 进行各自<br />的扩展开发, 新的文档也是籍此。Plone 之核心 Content Types 皆构建于 Archetypes 之上, 而 90% 左右的第三<br />方组件亦然。<br /><br />	不过 Archetypes 内部确有一些新的替代技术出现。诸如更为优美地在 Content 之间建立 Reference 的新方法, 又如新<br />的表单 (Form) 生成器 (请设想, 当表单用于面向 Content Object 增删改之外的那些应用)。随着 Archetypes 的<br />发展, 我们会采用更多的新技术以增强 Archetypes 使之与系统的其他部分协调运作。这便是我们的改良革新之路。<br /><br />	但是这 "并不" 意味着你基于 AT 构建的 Content Types 就会突然停止工作。请坚持在打算兼容的 Plone 版本上继续测试你<br />的代码, 并倾听 Deprecation Warning, 了解哪些接口即将被淘汰 (在下一个版本中) 一切都会顺利。<br /><br />	在 Plone 3 中 Archetypes 加入了少量的新特性, 其 Content Types 的灵活性略有提高。据我所知, "朴素"<br />的 Archetypes Content Types 尚不至于在 Plone 3 中挂掉。<br /><br />	基本上, 聊胜于无。但是类似 "Plone 3 将全面支持 Zope3" 那样的神话 (谣言, 又见谣言!) 如果信以为真, 那你就惨了。<br /></p>